[Music]
[Applause]
good evening and welcome to indiana
university cinema's virtual screening
room for secrets of the surface the
mathematical vision of miriam
mirazachini
this introduction and the following q a
will all feature live captioning to turn
on captions move your mouse to the
toolbar at the bottom of your screen
click on live transcript
then click show subtitle
if you have any issues feel free to ask
a question using the q a box which you
can reach by clicking on the q a button
at the bottom of your screen
to begin tonight's program iu cinema
wishes to acknowledge and honor the
indigenous communities native to this
region and recognize that indiana
university is built upon indigenous
homelands and resources
we recognize the miyamiaki the lanape
the bordeaux meek and the sawanwa
peoples as past present and future
caretakers of this land we ask you to
reflect on the lives and histories of
the indigenous communities from wherever
you are watching tonight
my name is jessica davis tag i'm the
events and operations director at iu
cinema on behalf of the entire iu cinema
team we'd like to thank you for being
here for tonight's screening of secrets
of the service the mathematical vision
of maryam mirzahani which will then be
followed by an interactive q a with our
panel to introduce the film tonight we
are joined by kevin pilgrim dr pilgrim
is professor and chair of mathematics at
iu bloomington he received his phd from
uc berkeley under the direction of
curtis mcmullen although this makes him
the mathematical brother of miriam
miyazakani he tells us that
unfortunately they have never met
welcome kevin
thanks very much jessica
welcome
across the world throughout the
millennia
math was used to solve practical
problems
but there's also evidence that math was
viewed as something that touched people
more deeply
an egyptian document more than 3 600
years old the rind mathematical papyrus
contains a puzzle of sevens that's very
close to the nursery rhyme riddle
as i was going to say knives i met a man
with seven wives and every wife had
seven sacks
so from the very beginning people
understood that math is not only
practical but playful
and is something that kindles our
imagination
and as people sought to understand the
order in the universe to develop their
calendars they looked to the stars and
they saw not only rhythm pattern and
order
but mysteries like eclipses and comets
and they were curious and as their
knowledge grew so too did their
ignorance
and the mysteries deepened
and the discoveries challenged cherished
assumptions like the very notions of
time of distance and of the shape of
space
and
the theoretical became also practical
our gps systems use the theory of
relativity and our banks use number
theory to keep transactions secure
so from the very beginning curiosity
about math and science has been part
about what makes us human
the two films last week's scepter
reaching for the stars and tonight's
secrets of the surface feature
scientists from iran
their stories remind us of the universal
appeal of math and science and they
highlight the challenges of viewing
science and math not as mere practical
tools or austere experiments removed
from everyday people's lives but as
expressions of human flourishing itself
tonight's event is part of the iu
cinemas creative collaboration series it
is sponsored by
the college of arts and sciences
department of mathematics the hamilton
luger school of global and international
studies department of central eurasian
studies
and the center for excellence in women
in technology here at indiana university
i'd like to thank the iu cinema creative
collaborations board associate director
brittany friesner iu cinema staff
and dr shiyar dhaneshkar of the
department of central eurasian studies
for his thoughtful and persistent
efforts to bring this event to fruition
and for serving as host for the panel
discussion
following tonight's film
i hope you'll all stay our panelists
include people who knew mariam mirzahni
personally who know about her
mathematics
and who know about how her achievements
were described in iran
thank you all for being here
jessica will now explain how to view the
film
thank you kevin for that introduction
everyone please come back if you can for
the conversation and q a after the film
after the introduction you'll see a link
to the film on your screen please note
the film program will not screen through
this zoom webinar you will need to open
a web browser to watch the film using
the website and the case sensitive
password provided
we will see you after the film and again
thank you for joining us
welcome back to iu cinema's virtual
screening room and our q a about the
movie secrets of the surface the
mathematical vision of maryam mizakhani
i'd like to remind you this q a will
feature live captioning to turn on
captions move your mouse to the toolbar
at the bottom of your screen click on
live transcript then click show subtitle
we will start the q a with a
conversation between our guests and
about 20 minutes in we will start
answering audience questions
please feel free to begin typing
questions into the q a box at any time
which you can reach by clicking on the q
a button at the bottom of your screen
the moderator for tonight's panel is dr
shayar dhanishgar he is a faculty member
in the department of central eurasian
studies in the hamilton luger school of
global and international studies where
he teaches persian and turkic languages
please welcome shayar danishkar
welcome everyone
we would like to welcome you to our
panel discussion we hope that you will
find a panel discussion informative and
interesting
tonight
we are gathered here to honor and
celebrate the life and achievements of
maryam mizuhani the first ever female
recipient of fields medal in mathematics
also referred to as nobel prize in
mathematics
on july 14
the worlds of science and humanity
lost maria mizzohani to the battle of
cancer when she was only 40 years old
both the science and humanity
because of individuals like maryam have
become a better place to live and hope
for a brighter future for humanity
especially for the woman in the society
as well as in the sciences
we have four panelists today here on
this panel
uh
each person will have a chance to uh
respond to a few questions
and uh again as jessica said we are
incur we encourage our audience to
do the same thing if you have any
questions you can easily
respond to us let me change the
background of my
wonderful
our panelists are dr laura de marco
professor of mathematics at harvard
university
dr shabnam kovusian professor of
informatics in the school of informatics
at indian university
dr julia polvnick the
charlotte and griffin professor of
mathematics in the department of
mathematics at indiana university
dr hussein banai professor of political
science in hamilton luger school of
global and international studies
i will start my question
with professor dimarco
you had the fortune of knowing maryam at
harvard university and worked with her
with the same mentors
on the human side of maryam
what could you tell us about your first
and many other encounters with maryam
was there an aha moment did you notice
anything unusual in mario
which could have hinted that you were
working with a bright future scientist
what could you tell our audiences
about the human quality of marian what
kind of a person she was what was your
experience working with her those are my
first
questions for you please
sure thank you um hi everybody um
yes so so i met maryam
roughly 20 years ago maybe a bit more
than 20 now so we were graduate students
together at harvard and as
as you just heard we were working with
the same professor the same advisor kurt
mcmullen who appears in the film and was
telling us about mariam's work and his
thesis her thesis and what she had done
after um
so
of course we knew each other very well i
mean we were a very small group of
students that were
working on closely related projects
so we spent a lot of time together
in fact one of the other students in our
group was also featured
uh in the film iset joshkun shows up he
was in chicago standing by the window of
his apartment and he was the one talking
about the dinners that we would have
together
when she was cooking and dancing and so
we
yes we spent a lot of time together
but i have to say
truthfully that
i can't say that i knew her so well and
and maybe it came through in the film
she was very
private
so she did not talk a lot about her
personal life she
um i think is that mentioned in the film
also that she didn't talk about politics
she didn't share her views and there was
a lot going on at the time it was 2000
2001 2002 so
with september 11th there was a lot
going on in this country and um
she did not she did not share her her
thoughts on those things so there were a
lot of things i didn't know
also in the film i noticed a lot of
people mentioning how how they were
surprised all of a sudden she was
involved with jan von drake so we didn't
even know so that was a big surprise she
was very very private
um
but
i will say she did talk a lot about
mathematics we talked
of course in great detail about our work
and
she was special and she was um
i mean no one couldn't say oh this
student is going to be the one that wins
the fields medal we couldn't know that
at the time
but i think what was most impressive to
me was how
how
how probing she was how how she was
really able to
ask the right questions and and see
connections and worked so hard to to to
figure something out that was
really difficult and a struggle and
where a lot of us might have given up
um i mean her her work
was really very impressive thank you
very much i have follow-up questions
that i hope that our colleague also
uh
julia polvnick will also
join you answering this question is
mostly related to scientific or
mathematics that many of us might not
have a clear idea exactly uh how
the theory or things that she was
working on it so mathematically speaking
uh
what was one of the most significant
contribute contributions of maryam
was it the development of a theory or
body of the techniques
or the solving of some particular
problem moreover what do you think is
the lasting impact
and the second question if i may
continue is that when thinking about how
to support and to encourage women
in science
based on your own experiences
what do you think is the most important
issue for academic leadership to know
so this question is for both of you i
have another question for uh julia but
uh
if you want to answer that you can do it
now but i could also continue with the
question for uh julia
should i do that maybe then you could
think about it uh laura oh i'm happy to
say just a couple words i i i just i
wasn't sure if julio was gonna jump in
um
no i'm from
her in terms of her mathematics i mean
my
the real lasting impact her theorems
were spectacular and very useful and are
being used all the time and this is
talked about in the film
but what's most striking
is
the questions that she asked that she
put out there for other people for all
of us to work on and this has been
enormous i mean these ideas that she's
that she put out there that were really
surprising connections that we did not
expect
and this
from my point of view was really why
she's so well recognized and deserves to
be so well recognized i mean based on
some of these ideas that she had and the
connections that she made that were that
were really unexpected and powerful in
mathematics
julia do you want to say something thank
you yeah thank you laura yeah
i have to say that my expertise in math
it's uh kind of further from mariam's
work
but i do agree with laura what she
brings here like something very excited
i think as a mathematician is seeing
connections between
so many different topics
areas in mathematics so how can you use
the point of view of one to solve
problems in the other how they connect
and i think that
that is spectacular and i
and from what i have seen seems like she
integrates very well different uh fields
different areas and in a very special
and original way so i think that's a
great
thing
and
also i think that
she being the first woman in achieve
this
field medal which as you said is like
the nobel prize for math it has also a
lasting a lasting impact
uh because i think that that gives that
gave and gives like
uh girls and women like
a different perspective now or more hope
on on what we can achieve as
mathematicians i'm not meaning that we
want to achieve the field metal
but
i don't know that that there is space
for us that we belong also in this in
this field you know it's a very male
dominated field and
i think it was also important
that yeah that's exactly what my next
question was about you talked about
there
she being a role model how important it
is but i wanted to ask you julia as a
woman scientist have you noticed a
significant change or breakthrough in
the field of mathematics in terms of
being
more accepted as a female or woman
scientist in a field which has been
dominated by males throughout the
history have you noticed some changes
as you wear or are doing your research
how can fields like mathematics become
more inclusive what are the main
challenges for the young female
scientists today
i think
i don't know if i can say that i see big
changes but i think that there has been
some changes and i think that's already
some pro it's like progress
like i think the vision is changing a
little and
i think one of the most important things
that at least the topic is now discussed
like we know that
that there is something
important to be done on this regard
because if you see at least here in most
of universities the percentage of women
it's maybe 10
or faculty female or maybe 20
if you're lucky
and so i think now this topic is on the
table and people is thinking about it so
i think that's a a shift that it's
happening
and
i do think that it's a lot of things to
do still and
i think some people think that it's
important and some other just
maybe not yet maybe they don't realize
yet that diversity in general is
particularly with this topic of gender
but in general it's important that that
gives
a
a better
way to do math and any other thing
having the diverse voices uh being here
i think it's important in any in in any
area
and i think one of the problems maybe
it's that that will lack of role models
sometimes like as i was saying there are
not that many women so sometimes you go
to a conference and maybe you see one
female speaker or and so you start
doubting can i do it why there are no no
more people like me doing this or
even in some sometimes kind of uh i
don't know if saying bureaucratic or
aspects but some of the things are not
even considered we cannot spend i don't
know grand money in
in child care for example but you are
supposed to do all the same things while
you have a kid right
so i think that that there are a lot of
things that need to be revised
but i don't think that people is
thinking more about it it's talking more
about it and i think that's nice i think
having mentors it's good
talking to people asking questions
and i think having networks is also good
professional networks but also support
networks
i'm also from another country so when i
arrived i i was lucky and i find a lot
of people to ask questions to
from things like how do you rent an
apartment how do you i don't know get
your ssn to
things more important or not more
important but things like
how is the teaching style here
or or other kind of things or what i was
supposed to do as an academic here i
don't know and
and that was helpful and also of course
some support network in the personal
life is also useful
i don't know if you want to give your
vision also yeah from what you're
telling us that we still have a long way
to go but it is good to have this
conversation out there because i am sure
that the deans and professor
deans and presidents of universities
they are listening to us because this is
a very strong message that we are given
to them that we need to share their
field of sciences
with other colleagues particularly
female colleagues i think this might
also help us to uh maybe ask our good
colleague shabnam called the theon and
i have questions in this regard to her
let me say that uh
professor shabnam kovusyon my general
question is that you were a fellow
student when maryam was attending the
sharif technical university of tehran am
i right that's my understanding
yes and you also work with same mentors
at the university if you're not mistaken
you work with the same people as laura
did uh at harvard do you have any
anecdotal story about maryam to share
with us
was it a buzz among students about a
woman student namely maryam who was
regarded as unusually bright i am sure
that you were one of them too everybody
thinks that you know their colleagues
are bright doesn't mean that you guys
were not but you know certain
individuals they have important i mean
they're like magnet you know people say
oh my goodness i mean we could speak
about mozart and great geniuses you know
they were unusual they were great
artists but they were just
super artist so was there an anecdote
that you would like to share with our
audience please
yes uh for sure um i was about three
four years older than maryam so when she
came to university um i was graduating
but i completely remember her
very clearly we shared similar mentors
all of them were interviewed in this
movie actually interestingly
dr mahmoud yan dr tabash and dr shah
shahani
they were
amazing role models for all of us
in an interesting way
they kind of put a shield around all of
us to protect us from
all the upheavals that there were for
women um
there are many many stories about them
and how they helped us achieve the
highest levels we could achieve and
similarly with maryam so i remember
precisely dr mahmoudian telling us about
this brilliant girl who fought
so hard to get to go to the
international olympiad because
until mary went mario manroya nobody had
gone no woman had gone to international
olympiad not because they couldn't
because the government wouldn't allow
women to go
so somehow they got
when they were in high school and they
were in this special high school for
gifted and talented students female
students
that with the help of their principal
they fought and they they achieved this
this win that was huge for all of us we
celebrated that a lot amongst women in
mathematics
we were older so it was past us but we
were happy for the future females who
could have hoped to go to the
international participate in
international olympia um up until then
we could have written the test and go up
to the country level for that but we
couldn't leave the country for the
international
contest so maryam and roya went they
were successful they
behaved according to the laws of the
iranian government which are very strict
so they open the door for the rest of
female
students uh to be able to go and travel
and so that was a huge achievement and i
remember a lot of buzz around that
and another a very important thing was
of course everybody knew
um right away that she is
totally um
above and beyond right in terms of the
ability and
and her scores in math olympiad also
were very impressive um
again as a as the first female who was
sent to the olympiad the fact that she
achieved almost perfect score the first
year and exactly perfect scored the
second year was huge as well so i
remember we always had this buzz about
all the people who went to olympia
during our year as going up because they
would all come to our department uh in
sharif
um but
the year maryam it was like much more
uh pronounced because of that
i see so you in your uh sharing the
anecdote with us you did mention that
she really had
uh royal and
she they had really hard time
going out of the country participating
in the olympiad
my next questions are related really
could you tell us about the challenges
other challenges and difficulties that
women students and the individuals like
you and maryam experience while growing
up in iran and going to school do you
know or think if the situations have
changed or still exist i know that the
professors in iran they considered
students like you there to be their own
students their own children they wanted
to have the best for them professors had
no problem with that this was an issue
with the government the system which did
not provide the
the
the right tools for the woman to reach
their potentials
the professors everywhere in the world
they are they give their lives for their
students
and you teach at indiana university a
big university and work with female
students daily
do the american
women students feel the same challenges
as the female students in iran if not
how are their issues different from the
the ones that you or mariam experienced
could you speak to that please
sure i think these are two questions one
was the challenges of female students in
iran
this is a very interesting um i found
that extremely interesting that might
have been the biggest culture shock
scientifically for me when i moved to
north america
that women were seen
as less capable in sciences and
mathematics in general this did not
exist in iran in iran even though women
were by law kind of looked at second ha
as as second-hand citizens
mathematically and scientifically we
were not we were always supported um
as as there was it was a good mention of
that in the movie that by roya and the
professors as well
about half the students in math
department were female um we never felt
like a minority uh as far as like you
talk about females being in a minority
in in technical fields that was not the
case in iran um
we were very much supported by yes by
our professors by even in high school i
think you saw the principal of maryam's
high school speaking but in the same for
me in my high school the um we were very
much supported as as women and
encouraged to go and study in technical
fields mathematics sciences
and that was the biggest biggest change
when when i moved to the universities in
north america
realizing that women see themselves
either by the society or by families
um as as mathematics not being kind of a
suitable field for them um that was a
huge culture shock for me i did not
expect that and the fact that people
would ask me
oh as a woman could you go to university
in iran i'm like yeah
what do you mean of course i could um so
that
the fact like people's view of iran um
in that sense is is is not quite right
uh in some cases people think that we
cannot go to university or cannot study
these fields which is not accurate but
also
um
there is a huge difference here that
students face different challenges here
i think female students in technical
fields
i feel um have different challenges
another thing that i don't know i i have
thought about it but i don't have any
data about it is just anecdotal in iran
um all of our high schools are
segregated in terms of gender so
um we have
schools for women and schools for men
and that's it and so when you are in
high school growing up and trying to
figure out what you want to study you
are only within a female group
and so
that that environment itself might be
something that contributes to not
viewing yourself as less than or
um
being dominated because i have visited a
lot of high school classrooms here
in my role when i was in math department
and i see a lot of classrooms are male
dominated by students the students who
ask questions are male the teachers pay
more attention to male students and so
so that kind of itself also i think is
is a problem that students here face um
that needs to be addressed in my view
but as far as challenges in iran goes of
course i think the political side of it
is very well known and uh well
documented in the united states so i i'm
not gonna go into the details of that
but but as far as personal experiences
go we really did not
personally did not face
um
challenges per se for that except
whatever the government was imposing on
us like traveling for in international
olympia that was a government um
problem and thankfully it got solved
and you asked if things are better now i
really have no idea i haven't been back
to iran for
more than 12 years
so i have no idea unfortunately what's
going on there right now i don't know if
it's better
or worse um
what i'm hearing is it's not better
okay hello
i think uh you mentioned the politics
now we're going to go to a political
scientist here we have somebody here i
hope that he would be able to
respond to some of the questions uh i
have my good friend colleague professor
russell monae
professor banai i wonder if you as a
political scientist could speak to the
social impacts and the ramification of
maryam's success story for the country
and the political system in which she
grew up
and in and its significance
worldwide
uh as we know maryam was a symbol of
pride in her country and yet a dilemma
for the regime in terms of how to handle
maryam's success
on one hand the officials wanted to
appropriate her name as their own
while enforcing the status quo before
mariam passed away and even when she
received the fields medal award there
was a cold warm reception within the
government uh i might be wrong i hope
that you could address this issue
the irony is that when bright
individuals like maryam are in the
country
those in power do not care or
acknowledge them
however when they are recognized outside
of the country suddenly the officials
decide to take advantage of situations
saying yes maryam is an iranian
the world should know about that she's
one of us
how was the news of maryam's passing
away received in iran
the newspapers as far as i know had her
pictures all over with scarves without
the scarf what was this such a
controversial issue in iran finally what
does malia mean to many young women not
only in iran but around the world
well um
there's a lot of very complicated
questions but thank you for fielding
them let me just say uh how wonderful it
is to be on this panel with
um my distinguished colleagues here all
of whom are far more knowledgeable and
accomplished in the field of mathematics
and
could speak as they have so eloquently
about
um mariam's trajectory accomplishments
and but also the meaning for the field
of mathematics which ultimately i think
is what her legacy is as the film shows
i think she is
a world historical figure in
in that particular field she has been
um
a pioneer uh as the first female winner
of the fields medal um
and as she herself um would have wanted
um
i think uh her work uh her pursuit of
knowledge in the field of mathematics um
should have really trumped politics let
me just say that from the um get go i
feel like an intruder here trying to
talk about politics about something that
is far more beautiful and universal and
encompassing
um
and then what i have to say about the
political context that as shabnam so
eloquently said
um
is uh very well known in terms of the
atmosphere the stifling atmosphere that
it creates for
talented individuals and across many
different fields not just mathematics
the phenomena you just mentioned about
the regime wishing to appropriate her
success
her being memorialized posthumously more
than she was when she was alive
um
that's not unique to her sadly you see
this in iranian film
uh accomplishments of iranian cinema on
the world stage for instance you see it
um
in uh in the world of literature you see
it in music um you see it in fields that
are far more um directly connected to
politics in terms of their impact and
mathematics is
um that's a story of authoritarian
politics in many countries you see it
from solomonist russia to today uh with
you know various composers and brilliant
engineers and
mathematics and chemists and
um individuals of high talent
um so
story maryam's story uh with respect to
the regime in iran
um is not unique you see there are many
different examples of it
like that in the case of such
outstanding brilliant outliers um
uh in
in in different fields
but perhaps what
um is unique in the case of the islamic
republic
that was touched on a little bit in the
film but
for those of us who've lived in iran and
especially grown up in
post-revolutionary iran it's much more
recognizable
and that is the kind of
um
the the the sheer persistence
uh the the kind of unabashed pursuit of
knowledge
that can rise above the kind of petty
politics that any regime could provide
in
the way of
um determined people
um
and that persistence is not just the
individual but the community i was so
glad to see the community of mentors and
classmates
and
colleagues of mariam's be so prominently
interviewed in the film
and that's something that directly spoke
to my experience of many other people
that i know their experience of these
kind of private zones of freedom that
are created
um
that talent uh that thirst for knowledge
nevertheless
organically develops out of and
oh how wonderful it is to see it in the
case of mariam for it to actually come
to fruition in such a
incredibly important
uh in world historical terms um uh way
um so it's uh
to kind of more directly answer your
question here i think that petty
politics of the regime is really
unremarkable it's something they've done
across many different fields
and um what's what's unique in this
story here is actually mariam just
her pursuit of her passion and interest
um surpassing all that and then by doing
that giving us a beautiful example of
what freedom actually means
the freedom that comes
with that untrammeled
on a bash pursuit of knowledge um that
she carried all the way across the world
and um
uh
and sadly were not for her untimely
death
um uh even her own uh uh
government of her own home country was
finally forced to admit it you know
photoshopped headscarves but
notwithstanding
thank you very much uh
i want to thank you and i use cinema and
our sponsors
uh this has been a wonderful gathering
of scholars and people who are in the
field and people who come from the
country know the country firsthand
i would like to turn over now the
podium to
jessica davis tag
to welcome the questions i see many
questions are posed already so we will
open up the floor to the questions
please
yes uh we've been receiving some great
questions there's still time for you
also to submit a question you can do so
by clicking on the q a button at the
bottom of your screen and then typing
your question in the q a box our first
question is from shikha who asks so
we've been talking about some of the
obstacles that maryam had faced what are
some of the factors that helped mayam
overcome those typical obstacles that
women and other underrepresented
scholars face in male dominated fields
i might respond to that i think
we saw that vividly in the in the movie
and the comments that we had from our uh
colleagues
uh hussain and shabnam i think the story
of the success was the support that they
got
from their female and mentors
they were very crucial
and i think we should make also a
distinction that in iran depending which
uh
which sector of the society which part
of the society you come from families
really
support their children whether you're
boy or girl to excel in your studies and
that goes without saying we have to be
honest about that but i think the
teachers they are the number one who
sort of like this candle in your heart
that you know there you can do it you
can do it
maybe shabnam and hussain could
speak to that or our colleagues laura
and julia
i'll just i'll just chime in about the
the years of graduate school of course i
don't know about the support she
received except from the film prior to
that but while we were in graduate
school we certainly had a lot of support
and especially from our advisor who kurt
mcmullen who was absolutely fantastic
fantastic and very supportive and the
advisor plays the role of
of course helping the students
while they're students but also
afterwards and um and that is also
making a difference as well as peers and
we were and there was a group of us and
um and her friend roya who was
in the film all the time was there and
so yeah so the network the network was
tremendous julia how about your country
in in argentina do you
have the same issues challenges what
would you say
or the really major help to
women
students to excel in their
field
i feel like it's a little bit different
than here so in some sense i don't think
we have maybe as much support as
we saw in iran but i do think for
example that i didn't
thought i didn't think that like being a
woman in math was something strange when
i was in argentina i did see more women
in math in argentina
later i did realize that maybe the um
the ones that were full professors were
less but still i i could see a lot of
women in there so i think that
there is maybe something here
and maybe what
japan was saying maybe in the in high
school or something where you are less
encouraged or where the
male students are more dominant and you
feel like maybe you don't have a say and
maybe you should study something else
like maybe the stem are not that that
much suited for women but in argentina i
felt like
we
like we had a good number of
women professors and i didn't feel like
an outsider
right
uh the next question is actually from
tashabnam from michelle
to what extent do you think
maryam's experience attending an
all-female school may have contributed
or helped to foster her success
um
yes as i as i mentioned this is
something that's been in my mind for a
very long time
especially visiting schools in the
united states in indiana i haven't
visited other schools but in indiana
when i go and visit high schools
it's kind of a very different
environment
from schools that we attended in iran
um
like there's a huge emphasis on sports i
think and with that comes
some emphasis on
specific type of um
um popularism in in sense of uh being
involved in sports
where in iran um
students that are popular are often
students who are
like very good at math or sciences and
that was a very big uh for me like
knowing that the word geek or
nerd is a bad has a bad connotation was
very eye-opening i called my best friend
a nerd and he was very upset with me and
i'm like is that a bad word and he was
like yes and i said i'm so sorry
i didn't know that um
so i thought it's a positive word and
so there are many cultural differences i
think in a sense i don't know how much
of it
has to do with all female school um
because um part of me was very angry
that our schools were separated
so i i don't want to advocate for that
at all but i don't know how much of it
is really
related to that and how much of it is a
cultural phenomena
hussain
yeah if i may say something about um
just in terms of upbringing in iran
and iranian schools early on
uh math and sciences are really the
higher subjects um and the amount of
value that's placed on them by families
let alone school principals and
administrators it's really very
different than many western or
democratic countries so excelling in
those subjects especially from an early
age really does set you apart not just
in your school but amongst your
uh family friends and
families and and that itself becomes a
motivating factor
great
uh the next question is for the
mathematicians uh ava asks in the film
they made references to miyazakani's way
of visualizing her work uh as though
like with her big drawing pads and it
seemed like they were commenting that
that was unusual was that a quirk
specific to her and her imaginative
spirit or has it become a more common
way of working through and interpreting
mathematical concepts and problems
that's a wonderful question um
we all think very differently and
um
she was especially
visual i would say
um a lot of us spend time drawing i have
my scratch work here i was just looking
over at my my notes from today
you know it's all pictures but it's also
numbers and computations too and people
in different fields tend to write
different things or draw different
things it depends on how you're
working it's very personal um
so yes she was especially visual i
wouldn't say that was unique to her
there are lots of people who think
visually but
but it was
i think more than more than others more
than my other friends and colleagues i
don't know julia your your area you
probably draw a lot too
julia anything you want to say about
that one oh yeah when when you said
about this question yeah i thought the
same like we do we have for example
diagrams or things like we see and
i always love that each of us has a
different way to think and a different
intuition you know when i was studying
geometry i couldn't even imagine
the taurus that it's this surface that
they speak and the like the geodesics or
the things and i was like no i don't see
it and some friends of mine explained me
how to visualize i don't have that
kind of visualization but
i think each of us has a different kind
of vision like i do have intuition in a
very different way like algebraic way
and we do
different kind of drawings and equations
and things
and from what i have seen in in her work
and all this i i have the feeling that
i i mean i haven't met her or discussed
with her
but i do have the feeling that she was
very visual and
also like they think that the advice or
bring in the movie also i think like she
had all these ideas in her mind like all
these
visions but not only like the figure it
was more like this universe that she
wanted to create or something so i feel
like it's in that direction
that
they were saying but i don't know i
never
met her or i'm not that familiar with
the world like
great
um alison asks has miriam's success
affected education in iran or affected
iranian women who are working in stem
hussein that might be a question for you
do you know
um
unfortunately i'm ignorant about this in
terms of the direct impact
i mean in the film you see younger
female mathematicians talking about the
positive impact that she's made that
naming of buildings and halls of
mathematic
mathematics and
um greater awareness of her achievement
undoubtedly
um
has trickled down
impact
um at a motivational level at a
programmatic level whether there is more
resources invested in um
schools or uh
um
whether there's something more
systematic in play i'm i'm not aware of
um and
i think if there were that would
probably be included in the film um
given that the range of people that are
still active in iran were interviewed in
the film so i would imagine not
i don't know if shatnam has more to add
to this
yes i agree with you i think i think
that is the extent of like naming things
after her
but i'm not quite sure if there's any
specific
resources
we saw a movie last week the sepider
in that movie they were also
showing some of the challenges that that
young lady had she wanted to become an
astronaut how many challenges she had
there were numerous challenges so we
could see that there as shabnam and jose
said yes i was reading that they have
named so many high schools after her
name
and programs institute so
well she has become a role model and
people will learn about it okay there
was a female who had this uh
intention to become a great scientist
and that
definitely plays a role in the minds of
young people that i can do the same
thing so he's a positive role model but
to what extent the
certain regimes and governments are
providing that uh
that
platform for them to
achieve what they want that's a question
that needs to be uh
further studied and done
in in the sciences
fantastic um i think we got time for
about two more questions
so the next one is berhan asks it seems
that math education in iran is highly
valued and very competitive could
somebody uh say a few things on math
education in iran
i
may i jump in
hussein talked about it but i could tell
you from my own experience here
teaching here at the university i often
come across with young iranian students
male or female who came from iran and
they go to high school here
and when they come to iu
in any fields of sciences biology
chemistry they think this is a joke
really they say first year math in us's
joke because we already covered this
when we were in in 10th grade and 9th
grade i mean biology they know all these
things it's just a breeze for them so as
hussein said really it is very valued
and
students have very solid knowledge in
sciences when they come here i mean
that's a breeze for them so that's my
experience from talking to them when you
ask them say no that's is it hard no
this is nothing you know we have already
covered this
so that's good news i hope that we could
see that here in this country because
some of our students really they're not
up for that challenge unfortunately
i think shabnam is probably has the most
direct experience with us having
actually studied mathematics in iran
yes um yes it is quite
it is quite different the mathematics
education in iran there is a divide um
for sure so in high school we divide
students the students get divided
somehow either based on their interest
or their grades into math and sciences
um
natural sciences which is like more
people who want to become doctors like
medical doctors and then arts and also
social studies and humanities so there
are four brand main branches where the
high schools actually separate high
school students separate at that at that
first grade of high school and so the
students who go to this uh
physical physics and mathematics
basically
and the hierarchy are like um
they count as a
yes hierarchy kind of so they are kind
of allowed to go to any field they want
to study and um and it gives you a bit
of freedom in that sense to so it
encourages you to study math and science
in some way um and also
so then when you
so you study uh hours and hours of
mathematics and physics and chemistry
when you are in high school um
and uh so it's quite concentrated so
that i think that makes a big difference
as far as math education is concerned
all right uh the final question is from
allison
to say uh do you have any advice for
women starting out in math or stem
fields and i'd actually like to broaden
that out and ask each of you
individually what you might want to say
to any young women out there who are
embarking upon a career in stem
uh let's start with shabnam maybe
sure
um
i work with a lot of students um myself
and
i always say because in as i say in the
united states you have to
kind of undo some of the cultural um
effects of
how sciences and mathematics
are not really viewed um
somehow it's it's different but
anyway i always say don't imagine a
stereotypical programmer for example
when i'm teaching programming don't try
to like look at the media or the tv
shows or
movies to figure out
what the stereotypical programmer looks
like
see yourself there is no
specific way that you have to think to
become a good programmer
every type of thinking can be trained to
become a good programmer and the same in
mathematics i believe there are for sure
some people who are talented that that
talent exists that giftedness exists but
also there is a lot of training and hard
work that goes into it for most of us
who studied mathematics we enjoy
being challenged it's not that it comes
easy it's just when you sit and think
for a long time and figure it out it
gives you a high and that high is the
thing we enjoy so i tell my students
don't think that it has to be easy so
for you to be good at something it has
to be hard and then you enjoy that
hardness and you enjoy that rush that
you get
difficult
and i think that's universal for men and
male and female i don't see it as a sep
red issue
julia
to be honest this is a hard question i
think
but it's a good question and
i think uh
i would say that if they like the math
if they like the topic they they should
pursue it that us
as we said before it's it might not be
easy but they
they should go for it and
probably try not to compare themselves
with the other a lot of the times i have
some students in my class that they
don't want to ask questions for example
because they see other students usually
my students
like being the ones answering or i ask a
question and some students answer
without waiting that i
like say yeah and you answer because i
try to wait so more people
like brexit
but it's like that doesn't mean that the
other people knows more or understand
more
it's not like you need to compare
yourself and it's also good to look for
people that you feel comfortable to to
ask the questions that you have
and create a network i i do think that
creating networks and finding mentors
are really a good way
to go and enjoy what you like to do
that's yeah
do what you enjoy
laura
yes i i feel the same go after go after
what you enjoy i um
i would say also don't don't be afraid
to reach out to your teachers to your
professors whatever level you're at
whether it's elementary school middle
school
university graduate school whatever it
is and really reach out to the
to the people that are there that you
know we're all here to
to help that's that's what we do that's
why we're teaching and um
and you can advocate for yourself and
just really go after what you're excited
about and i want to
encourage curiosity and encourage that
interest in the subject so
yeah
wonderful uh yeah i was going to say
that uh really this is a cultural issue
as shabna mentioned
and it's going to take a long time
educational
approach to these issues but i think
things are changing i i would also say
that families play a very important role
you know if you encourage your kids even
if they are
feeling that they are not doing
well
i think the family plays a major role in
encouraging them
finding tutors for them and tell them go
talk to your professor don't give up
because
we have all sort of facilities here that
they could benefit from that we just
need to give them that
human support to them that you can't do
it and as we say sky is the limit so
push yourself nothing is going to fall
on your lap you have to work for it it's
not that easy
you're saying is there anything you'd
like to add
um i'll give it um typically political
science um answer here i think
what the film really drove home for me
and this is the maybe the message that
could be conveyed is
um
you know finding freedom in the pursuit
of your curiosity um
whatever that is uh
can uh lead you down the paths that may
not result in what you know mariam is a
honey managed to
achieve but in a sense of
self-fulfillment that ultimately i think
is what mattered to her most as well and
what everyone else on this panel has so
beautifully conveyed about their
particular interests
wonderful well
thank you shayar shabnam hussain laura
julia kevin and again all of you for
being with us i'd like to thank the
entire iu cinema team and particularly
brittany seth david max and ava who've
all worked behind the scenes to help
make this event possible
we'd like to encourage you to go to iu
cinema's virtual screening room to see
our upcoming films and events
to all of you who tuned in thank you
once again for being with us please be
kind and be generous to yourselves and
to others and we will hope to see you
again soon
thank you all so much and have a great
night
[Music]
[Applause]
you